>> Erik Reinert: Okay, cool.
So we have sourced our ENv,
we know that we have all of our values.
So now what we're going
to do is we're just going
to do Docker compose up, detach.
So I'm gonna actually run a container now.
Now we haven't even looked at the file, so
we're just going to blindly
take the steps that the doc.
The readme said and
just hope that it works, right?
So you should see
something more like this.
You'll see it.
Start pulling the image and then run it.
What is Orb Stack?
Good question.
So I'm a little bougie.
It's the easiest way to put it.
I use a Mac in my own personal
development experience.
I really don't like having
to deal with stuff.
And I hated Docker Desktop I hated it,
itwas a terrible experience.
I didn't have a really good
experience just dealing with it.
Whatever.
A while ago I heard about
something called Orb Stack.
It's a Mac only tool, from what I know.
I don't know if it's available on Linux.
It might be, but it's basically
an alternative to Docker Desktop.
The thing that makes it really nice though
is that you can even manage VMs with it.
This was something I always
wanted Docker Desktop to do.
I always wanted Docker Desktop to be able
to make it so I could create VMs as well.
But they didn't.
The idea here is I can run containers.
You'll see.
Here is my workshop postgres container.
I have this nice UI,
I can run kubernetes as well.
Now granted you can do that with
Docker Desktop, but this is,
in my opinion, nicer.
The next thing it tells us to do is
if we go back to this readme, right?
It says, okay, M created credentials and
then go, run main, go.
So if we do go, run main, go.
Okay, cool.
Does that do that for you guys?
I got a password authentication failed for
Postgres.
Okay, did you guys get that too?
I did, you got that as well.
So I did not realize this.
I apologize.
Orb Stack, I guess is their
networking works a little bit
more like integrated, I guess.
So in the Docker compose here,
it says network mode.
We just did this to make our lives easier.
But what I want you to do really quickly
is just change this to this right,
right here.
So get rid of the host and
simply change that.
What's funny is you just went through
something that is very common in software
development, which is I got code and
now it's not working on my machine.
If you change that, and
then you just do Docker here,
I'll just do down like this and
then bring it back up, then do go run.
It should still work.
You can see that for
me, it worked in both scenarios because of
just how Docker Orb Stack works for me.
But the results, again,
even though it's slightly different,
it should be the same result.
So try going to that URL.
Do you get this?
Yeah.
So this is another fun part about
deploying applications is you may
have it running, but
it doesn't mean that it's working.
And so this is a scenario where this is
why I did it this way was because you're
absolutely right.
We didn't run any schema data migrate.
We did nothing,
we just went up and worked.
So this kind of goes back to that
whole readme SQL document and
everything like that.
If the user didn't realize
they had to do that or
whatever, then they would
easily fall into this.
And then you'd be hearing
somebody messaging Slack,
why is this not working on my computer?
So, yeah, it would be cool if in
the future we can just do up and
then maybe something else so
that we know it gets seeded and
then run so
that we know that we're all good to go.
So I'm going to stop running
the application really quickly.
The next thing I'm going to
do is I'm going to go back
to the document because I realize,
okay, I got to run some stuff.
Did you just do Docker Composer down,
or you left the containers running?
Yeah, we wanna keep the containers
running in the background.
And the reason for that, and
this is what I want you to try as well,
is because in the setup, you'll notice
that there's a command right here.
Docker, compose, exec, postgres, psql U,
blah, blah, blah right This makes it so
that we can actually connect to
the instance and run some stuff.
So I'm going to open up a new window or
a new tab and.
And then I'm just gonna run that here,
actually source, and
then I'm just gonna run that command.
So make sure you source your M and
then run that command.
Now if you run that command and you're.
Again, I'm very curious to
see what happens for you.
You should get this.
The next thing we want to do really is
just copy this whole block of code here,
all of the SQL from the first SQL
all the way down to the last line,
then just paste that bad boy in
like that Once you copy that and
then you hit exit, we now should be
able to go back, do go, run again and
then if I refresh, yay,
my application loads up, I'm logged in.
So that's the first thing.
The next thing we want to do is
actually try the login process.
So do me a favor, click on, get started,
go through that and there you go.
Now I am logged in with my profile.
Cool.
Awesome.
Then if I click logout,
I should go back to that.
So what do we know?
We know that we set up a database.
We know that we gave it credentials or,
sorry, we gave it SQL.
We know that we have our OAuth
client set up as long as we expose
the environment variables the right way.
And we know that if we run the application
with all of that stuff, precursor set up,
it works.
Cool.
If we were in this scenario, we would then
say, okay, I now know how this app works,
I know how it runs and
I know what I need to set it up again.
The reason why we went through this is
that this is part of that understanding of
you can't just take an application and
do nothing with it.
You really have to get comfortable with it
a little bit to be able to maintain it and
understand what are its parameters and
all of that.
Cool, awesome.
This works and we are moving forward.
Let me see what we've got next.
Now, if you want to, just to be sure, and
I would even recommend this
is use it a little bit.
So I'm going to go in here, let me
start running the application again.
So I'm going to go in here,
I'm going to go back in,
log back in again,
then I'm just going to share something.
Hello World.
Share, update.
Okay, cool.
So database is even working.
If I click on this, this is my comment.
Cool.
Okay, so again, not only did we test
login, we actually tried making
sure that functionality is working.
I can update, I can add comments,
we're in a good spot.
The database, everything is working and
we have successfully ran the application.